.Recommendations on use of thr dataset:

This is a very large dataset. It has 450 classes. There are 70,658 training images, 2250 test images  
and 2259 validation images. All images are 224 X 224 X 3 jpg format. Because of the size of the dataset  
it can take a very long time to train. For example if you use an image size of 200 X200 for training it takes  
about 16 minutes per epoch. I trained a model using that image size and achieved an F1 score of 99.28%,  
That is the trained model included as part of this dataset.  
To reduce the training time per epoch you can use a smaller images size. 
I used an image size of 120 X 120 to train a moodel and got an F1 score of about 97 % on the test set and the average
duration of an epoch was about 7 minutes.
For the training set the number of images in the classes varies from a maximum of 248 to a minimum of 130. For the   
trained model in the dataset I trimmed the training set to have a maximum of 160 images in any class. I then used   
augmentation to add images to the under represented classes so that in the end each class had 160 training images.
You would probably get a high F1 score just using 130 images per class.
One of the deficiencies in the dataset is the ratio of male images to female images. Google and Bing searches tend to  
include far more images of the male of the species versus that of the female of the species. I estimate that about  
80% of the images in the dataset are of the male of the species. I therefore expect the models ability to accurately  
classify an image of a female bird may be significantly lower than the F1 scores the model achieved on the test set.

A note for users trying to identify a bird species from photos:

If you see a bird and want to identify its species, it is BEST to take several photos of the bird rather than just one.
For each image you should use some photo processing software to crop the image so that to the extent possible the cropped
image maximizes the ratio of pixels of the bird divided by the total number of pixels in the cropped image. 
You can consider that ratio as equivalent to a signal to noise ratio for the image. In the dataset I cropped all images  
to maximize this ratio. Note for an image, crop it first then resize it. Included in my notebook for this dataset is  
a function ave_predictor. When this function is used with the parameter averaged=True it process all images in a directory  
and returns as the class for ALL images as the class having the highest summed probability over all images predictions.
You should use this function if you have several phots of the same bird as mentioned above. That way you get a much more  
accurate  prediction for the birds species.